# Blackjack!

Blackjack, also known as twenty-one, is the most widely played casino banking game in the world. Blackjack is a comparing card game between a player and dealer, meaning players compete against the dealer but not against other players. This implementation of Blackjack uses a single deck of 52 regular playing cards. The objective of the game is to beat the dealer in one of the following ways:
* Get 21 points on the player's first two cards (called a "blackjack" or "natural"), without a dealer blackjack
* Reach a final score higher than the dealer without exceeding 21;
 or
* Let the dealer draw additional cards until his or her hand exceeds 21.

The player or players are dealt a two-card hand and add together the value of their cards. Face cards (kings, queens, and jacks) are counted as ten points. A player and the dealer can count an ace as 1 point or 11 points. All other cards are counted as the numeric value shown on the card. After receiving their first two cards, players have the option of getting a "hit", or taking an additional card. In a given round, the player or the dealer wins by having a score of 21 or by having the higher score that is less than 21. Scoring higher than 21 (called "busting" or "going bust") results in a loss. A player may win by having any final score equal to or less than 21 if the dealer busts. If a player holds an ace valued as 11, the hand is called "soft", meaning that the player cannot go bust by taking an additional card; 11 plus the value of any other card will always be less than or equal to 21. Otherwise, the hand is "hard".

The dealer must hit until the cards total 17 or more points. Players win by not busting and having a total higher than the dealer's. The dealer loses by busting or having a lesser hand than the player who has not busted. If the player and dealer have the same total, this is called a "push", and the player with neither win nor lose money on that hand. If all available players bust, the hand ends automatically without the dealer having to play his or her hand

Since the players are only playing against the dealer and not against one another, the objective of this implementation is for the players to double their money.  The first player to double their money wins!

## Rules of play
The players' object is to win money by creating card totals that turn out to be higher than the dealer's hand but do not exceed 21 ("busting"), or alternatively by allowing the dealer to take additional cards until he/she busts. On their turn, players must choose whether to "hit" (take a card), "stand" (end their turn), "double" (double wager, take a single card and finish), or "split" (if the two cards have the same value, separate them to make two hands). Number cards count as their natural value; the jack, queen, and king (also known as "face cards" or "pictures") count as 10; aces are valued as either 1 or 11 according to the player's choice. If the hand value exceeds 21 points, it busts, and all bets on it are immediately forfeit. After all the players have finished playing, the dealer's hand is resolved by drawing cards until the hand busts or achieves a value of 17 or higher. The dealer never doubles or splits. If the dealer busts, all remaining player hands win. If the dealer does not bust, each remaining bet wins if its hand is higher than the dealer's, and loses if it is lower. If a player receives 21 on the 1st and 2nd card it is considered a "blackjack" and the player is paid out immediately unless dealer also has a blackjack, in which case the hand ties. In the case of a tied score, known as "push", bets are normally returned without adjustment; however, a blackjack beats any hand that is not a blackjack, even one with a value of 21. An outcome of blackjack vs. blackjack results in a push. Wins are paid out at 1:1, or equal to the wager, except for winning blackjacks, which are paid at 3:2 (meaning the player receives three dollars for every two bet), or one-and-a-half times the wager.

### Player decisions
* Hit: Take another card from the dealer.
* Stand: Take no more cards.
* Double down: The player is allowed to increase the initial bet by up to 100% in exchange for committing to stand after receiving exactly one more card.
* Split: If the first two cards of a hand have the same value, the player can split them into two hands.  The dealer separates the two cards and draws an additional card on each, placing one bet with each hand. The player then plays out the two separate hands in turn; except for a few restrictions, the hands are treated as independent new hands, with the player winning or losing their wager separately for each hand. For splitting purposes, all 10-value cards are treated the same (i.e. a 10 and a king could be split). Further splitting of post-split hands is limited to three times, so a player can never have more than four hands at once.  

Each hand may normally "hit" as many times as desired so long as the total is not above hard 20. On reaching 21, the hand is normally required to stand; busting is an irrevocable loss and the players' wagers are immediately forfeited to the house. After a bust or a stand, play proceeds to the next hand clockwise around the table. When the last hand has finished being played, the dealer reveals the hole card, and stands or draws further cards according to the rules of the game for dealer drawing. When the outcome of the dealer's hand is established, any hands with bets remaining on the table are resolved (usually in counterclockwise order): bets on losing hands are forfeited, the bet on a push is left on the table, and winners are paid out.


<sub> Game description shamelessly stolen from Wikepedia at https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blackjack </sub>

